README.rst, before:


############################################
Levis: Programming by the Seat of Your Genes
############################################

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/rawg/levis.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/rawg/levis
.. image:: https://badge.fury.io/py/levis.svg
    :target: https://badge.fury.io/py/levis

A toolkit for genetic algorithms in Python. Pronounce it like the denim pants,
because ``levis`` lets you program by the seat of your genes!


Overview
--------
The ``levis`` package contains a collection of genetic traits meant
to be composed to achieve a desired algorithm behavior.

To implement your own GA, you will probably want to extend from one of the
classes in ``selection`` and one of the classes in ``logger``. The former will
give you proportionate or tournament selection, and the latter will enable
logging (including verbosity).

You'll also want to override the ``crossover()`` and ``mutate()`` methods with
implementations from the packages by the same name.

The examples each have three components: a genetic solution, a method to
generate data, and a ``main`` method to wire in command line arguments. The
examples will respond to a ``-h`` flag to display help.


Getting Started
---------------

Prerequisites
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

One of levis' design goals is to be runnable on the default Mac OS Python
installation. As a result, levis targets Python 2.7+ and 3.2+. There are no
dependencies to work with levis, but image rendering in the examples, when
implemented, relies on ``svgwrite``, and some data generation needs ``Faker``.
::

  $ pip install svgwrite
  $ pip install fake-factory


Installing
~~~~~~~~~~
Installation is now available via PyPI.
::

  $ pip install levis

Install by cloning the git repository. Installation via PyPI is coming soon.
::

  $ git clone https://github.com/rawg/levis


Running Examples
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you're looking at this project, you're probably more interested in the
example implementations than in the core genetic behaviors. Each ``*.py`` file
in  the ``examples/`` folder should respond to a ``-h`` argument to list its
options. All should run without any options, but you'll want to tweak the
parameters to better understand each algorithm.
::

  $ cd examples/
  $ python knapsack01.py -h
  $ python knapsack01.py --iterations=10 --population-size=5


Testing
-------

Running the Unit Tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The examples of running the unit tests below should be run from the project's
root directory.

To run all tests:
::

  $ python all_tests.py

Running an individual test method:
::

  $ python -m tests.test_behavior FinishWhenSlowGATestCase.test_doesnt_finish_when_fast

Running a single test case:
::

  $ python -m tests.test_behavior FinishWhenSlowGATestCase

Running a single test file:
::

  $ python -m tests.test_behavior


Testing Code Style
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The code is periodically checked with ``pylint``, if that sort of thing
interests you. Note that several ``pylint`` warnings are currently ignored, but
it's good to know your faults.


Planned Changes
---------------

You can expect the following in future releases:

- Additional crossover operators, such as cycle and merge crossover.
- Mutation rate will be the likelihood of a change to any allele to match Dr.
  Goldberg's examples.
- Additional traits for crossover and mutation operators.
- The examples will be moved to another repository and several more will be
  added.
- API documentation and a user's guide will be available (probably at
  readthedocs.org)

Please be aware that the API is in flux, and changes between versions may still
introduce breaking changes.


Change Log
----------

:v0.4.0: A big step toward a stable API, this version includes decomposed
         logging traits, an implementation of elitism that works with
         tournament selection, a number of bug fixes and minor improvements,
         and installation via ``pip``/PyPI.


Versioning
----------
Version numbers follow the `SemVer <http://semver.org/>`_ scheme. For the
versions available, see the `tags on this repository
<https://github.com/your/project/tags>`_. 


Authors
-------
Only one soul can be blamed for this:

- Jeremy Fisher, `@thisisroot <https://twitter.com/thisisroot>`_.


License
-------
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see
the `LICENSE.md <LICENSE.md>`_ file for details.

Commit message:

Mutation rate and crossover return values better match canonical implementations, better support for list encoding schemes of heterogeneous length has been added, and traits are now available to make encoding schemes easier

README.rst, after:


############################################
Levis: Programming by the Seat of Your Genes
############################################

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/rawg/levis.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/rawg/levis
.. image:: https://badge.fury.io/py/levis.svg
    :target: https://badge.fury.io/py/levis

A toolkit for genetic algorithms in Python. Pronounce it like the denim pants,
because ``levis`` lets you program by the seat of your genes!


Overview
--------
The ``levis`` package contains a collection of genetic traits meant
to be composed to achieve a desired algorithm behavior.

To implement your own GA, you will probably want to extend from one of the
classes in ``selection`` and one of the classes in ``logger``. The former will
give you proportionate or tournament selection, and the latter will enable
logging (including verbosity).

You'll also want to override the ``crossover()`` and ``mutate()`` methods with
implementations from the packages by the same name.

The examples each have three components: a genetic solution, a method to
generate data, and a ``main`` method to wire in command line arguments. The
examples will respond to a ``-h`` flag to display help.


Getting Started
---------------

Prerequisites
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

One of levis' design goals is to be runnable on the default Mac OS Python
installation. As a result, levis targets Python 2.7+ and 3.2+. There are no
dependencies to work with levis, but image rendering in the examples, when
implemented, relies on ``svgwrite``, and some data generation needs ``Faker``.
::

  $ pip install svgwrite
  $ pip install fake-factory


Installing
~~~~~~~~~~
Installation is now available via PyPI.
::

  $ pip install levis

Install by cloning the git repository. Installation via PyPI is coming soon.
::

  $ git clone https://github.com/rawg/levis


Running Examples
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you're looking at this project, you're probably more interested in the
example implementations than in the core genetic behaviors. Each ``*.py`` file
in  the ``examples/`` folder should respond to a ``-h`` argument to list its
options. All should run without any options, but you'll want to tweak the
parameters to better understand each algorithm.
::

  $ cd examples/
  $ python knapsack01.py -h
  $ python knapsack01.py --iterations=10 --population-size=5


Testing
-------

Running the Unit Tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The examples of running the unit tests below should be run from the project's
root directory.

To run all tests:
::

  $ python all_tests.py

Running an individual test method:
::

  $ python -m tests.test_behavior FinishWhenSlowGATestCase.test_doesnt_finish_when_fast

Running a single test case:
::

  $ python -m tests.test_behavior FinishWhenSlowGATestCase

Running a single test file:
::

  $ python -m tests.test_behavior


Testing Code Style
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The code is periodically checked with ``pylint``, if that sort of thing
interests you. Note that several ``pylint`` warnings are currently ignored, but
it's good to know your faults.


Planned Changes
---------------

You can expect the following in future releases:

- Additional crossover operators, such as cycle and merge crossover.
- Additional traits for crossover and mutation operators.
- The examples will be moved to another repository and several more will be
  added.
- API documentation and a user's guide will be available (probably at
  readthedocs.org)

Please be aware that the API is in flux, and changes between versions may still
introduce breaking changes.


Change Log
----------

:v0.5.0: This version changes some behaviors to match more canonical
         implementations. Specifically:
         - All crossover operators return a list of children. Most operators
           create two children from two parents.
         - Mutation rate is now expressed as the probability of a mutation to
           *any* allele, not the probability that a chromosome will undergo a
           mutation.
         
         Additionally, a cut and splice crossover operator and a point mutation
         that may add or shrink chromosomes has been added for better support
         for list encoding schemes of heterogeneous length.

:v0.4.0: A big step toward a stable API, this version includes decomposed
         logging traits, an implementation of elitism that works with
         tournament selection, a number of bug fixes and minor improvements,
         and installation via ``pip``/PyPI.


Versioning
----------
Version numbers follow the `SemVer <http://semver.org/>`_ scheme. For the
versions available, see the `tags on this repository
<https://github.com/your/project/tags>`_. 


Authors
-------
Only one soul can be blamed for this:

- Jeremy Fisher, `@thisisroot <https://twitter.com/thisisroot>`_.


License
-------
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see
the `LICENSE.md <LICENSE.md>`_ file for details.
